Adv. install topic - pluggable components (#542)
knative/docs: install/Knative-custom-install.md

> # Installing Individual Knative Components

Reviewer: I think we said we wanted to align the file name with this H1? Maybe something like "Performing/Designing/Using a Custom Knative Installation"?

Author: ```suggestion
# Performing a Custom Knative Installation
```

[1]: https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.1/release.yaml
[1.1]: https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/tag/v0.2.1
[2]: https://www.elastic.co/elk-stack
[3]: https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.1/release-no-mon.yaml
[4]: https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.1/release-lite.yaml
[5]: ../serving/setting-up-a-logging-plugin.md
[6]: https://github.com/knative/build/releases/tag/v0.2.0
[6.1]: https://github.com/knative/eventing/releases/tag/v0.2.0
[7]: https://github.com/knative/eventing/releases/download/v0.2.0/eventing.yaml
[8]: https://github.com/knative/eventing-sources/releases/download/v0.2.0/release.yaml
[8.1]: https://github.com/knative/eventing-sources/releases/tag/v0.2.0
[9]: https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.1/serving.yaml

Note: Each of the installable Knative resources are also listed in the Assets
section of each Knative component's release page:
* [Serving v0.2.1](https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/tag/v0.2.1)
* [Build v0.2.0](https://github.com/knative/build/releases/tag/v0.2.0)
* [Eventing v0.2.0](https://github.com/knative/eventing/releases/tag/v0.2.0)

> ### Installing individual Knative components

Author: ```suggestion
### Installing Knative packages
```

**Tip**: From the table above, you can copy and paste the URL and filename of
the installation package that you want to install.

> 1. To install an installation package, run the `kubectl apply` command

Author: ```suggestion
1. To install a Knative package, run the `kubectl apply` command
```

# Performing a Custom Knative Installation

Use this guide to perform custom installations of Knative on your existing
Kubernetes clusters. Knative's pluggable components allow you to
install only what you want in each of your clusters.

The steps covered in the guide are for advanced operators who want to
customize each Knative installation. Installing individual Knative components
requires that you to run multiple and separate installation commands.

## Before you begin

* If you are new to Knative, you should instead [install one of the default

>   installation packages](./README.md). Follow the host specific Knative installation

Author: ```suggestion
  installation packages](./README.md). Follow the host specific Knative installation test
```

  instructions for the default package to help you get up and running with the
  least effort. Installing a default package also ensures that you can run all the
  [Knative Serving Samples](https://github.com/knative/docs/blob/master/serving/samples/README.md).

* The following steps use `bash` for a MacOS or Linux environment; for Windows,
  some commands might need adjustment.

* This installation guide assumes that you have an existing Kubernetes cluster,
  on which you're comfortable installing and running _alpha_ level software.

* Kubernetes requirements:

  * Knative requires that the version of your Kubernetes cluster is v1.10 or newer.

  * Your Kubernetes cluster must also have the
    [MutatingAdmissionWebhook admission controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#how-do-i-turn-on-an-admission-controller)
    enabled.

  * The version of your
    [`kubectl` CLI tool](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
    must be v1.10 or newer.

> ## Installing Istio

Author: Hi @tcnghia, can you please look over and validate the Istio related steps?

Ive incorporated much feedback from here and from meetings, into these steps and would like an LGTM from you to ensure everything is accurate.

Knative depends on [Istio](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/what-is-istio/) for
the service mesh. You can choose the default package to install the Istio service mesh with
[automatic sidecar injection](https://istio.io/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection).
You should install the default package if you are just getting started with Knative.

Alternatively, you can choose to install Istio with manual sidecar injection or with support for
[Custom Resource Definitions (CRD)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/).

### Choosing an Istio installation package

You can choose from the following installation packages to install the Istio
service mesh on you cluster:

| Istio Package Filename | Description       |
| ---------------------- | ----------------- |
| [`istio.yaml`][a]             | Default: Configured for Automatic Sidecar Injection. |

> | [`istio-crds.yaml`][b]        | Support for Custom Resource Definitions. **Q: This have to do with "Pilot"? Why choose this?** |

Reviewer 2: As this document is mainly for customize install for Knative, so I suggest we use select a default Istio install here to simplify the installation, how about only mention `istio.yaml` with sidecar autoinjection enabled?

Author: It is currently labelled as "default" but per a recent discussion with @mattmoor, the preferred and more reliable install path is to initially install `istio-crds.yaml` to ensure that required k8s resources (services?) are up and running. Apparently some are seeing issues if the customresourcedefinitions try to get created before k8s is ready.

| [`istio-lean.yaml`][c]        | Configured for Manual Sidecar Injection. **Q: When or why should users choose this?** |

[a]: https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.2/istio.yaml
[b]: https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.2/istio-crds.yaml
[c]: https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.2/istio-lean.yaml

### Installing Istio installation packages

1. Install an Istio package with the `kubectl apply` command by specifying the
   package filename:
    ```bash
    kubectl apply --filename https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.2/[FILENAME].yaml
    ```

    where `[FILENAME]` is the name of the Istio package that you want to install. Example:

>     `https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.2/istio.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```
https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.2/istio.yaml
```

    `
1. Label the default namespace with `istio-injection=enabled`: **Q: For which install package is this needed? Or is this needed for all Istio installs?**
    ```bash
    kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
    ```
1. View the status of your Istio installation. It might take a few
   seconds so rerun the following command until all of the pods show a
   `STATUS` of `Running` or `Completed`:
    ```bash
    kubectl get pods --namespace istio-system
    ```

    > Tip: You can append the `--watch` flag to the `kubectl get` commands to
      view the pod status in realtime. You use `CTRL + C` to exit watch mode.

## Installing Knative components

You can install each Knative component independently or use the default packages
to install multiple components. The individual component packages exclude
an observability plugin but you have the option to install one later.

> ### Choosing Knative installation packages

Author: Resolving this comment and will add @mdemirhan to the PR I open for the in-progress edit Im working on (#447).  [A bit delayed since I'm working my way back through all the changes I made initially for 0.1 and am now rewriting it all again to align with the new behavior in 0.2.]

The following Knative installation packages are available.

This installation method is suggested for experienced operators. If you are new to
Knative, you should [install the default package](./README.md) to help you get up
and running with the least effort.

> | Knative Package Filename | Serving Component | Build Component | Eventing Component | Observability Plugin* |

Reviewer 3: Does eventing include eventing-sources?

Author: no. the way i understand it is that:
eventing is channels / subscriptions
eventing-sources are event sources (k8s, github, PubSub)

I just noticed today that we also have a PubSub version: [release-with-gcppubsub.yaml](https://github.com/knative/eventing-sources/releases/download/v0.2.0/release-with-gcppubsub.yaml] that is missing from this list.

| ------------------------ | ----------------- | --------------- | ------------------ | ----------------- |

> | Default: [`release.yaml`][1] ([knative/serving repo][1.1]) | Included | Included | -     | [ELK stack][2] |

Reviewer 4: It installs ELK stack for logs and Prometheus & Grafana for metrics.

Author: Thanks, ill make sure they are listed here as well.

| [`release-no-mon.yaml`][3] | Included        | Included        | -                  | -                 |

> | [`release-lite.yaml`][4] | Included          | Included        | -                  | Includes support for a [`fluentd` based observability plugin][5] that you provide. |

Author: @mdemirhan is this an accurate description of what ...-lite.yaml installs or inline with your comment above, does this exclude the ELK stack but add Promeeheus and Grafana for metrics?

* [Eventing v0.2.0][7.1]

### Installing Knative packages

**Tip**: From the table above, you can copy and paste the URL and filename of
the installation package that you want to install.

1. To install a Knative package, run the `kubectl apply` command
   and specify the package path and filename:

   * To install an individual package:
      ```bash
      kubectl apply --filename [INSTALL_PACKAGE]
      ```

   * To install multiple packages, you can append additional `--filename [INSTALL_PACKAGE]`
     flags to the `kubectl apply` command:
      ```bash
      kubectl apply --filename [INSTALL_PACKAGE] --filename [INSTALL_PACKAGE] \
        --filename [INSTALL_PACKAGE]
      ```

    Where [`INSTALL_PACKAGE`] is the URL path and filename of the a Knative installation package:

    `https://github.com/knative/[COMPONENT]/releases/download/[VERSION]/[FILENAME].yaml`

    And `[COMPONENT]`, `[VERSION]`, and `[FILENAME]` are the Knative component, release version, and filename of the installable resource. For example:
    * `https://github.com/knative/build/releases/download/v0.2.0/release.yaml`
    * `https://github.com/knative/eventing/releases/download/v0.2.0/eventing.yaml`

>     * `https://github.com/knative/eventing-sources/releases/download/v0.2.0/release.yaml`

Reviewer 3: What sources does this include?

Author: "core sources" as its referred to in the readme, which are k8s, github, and containers

>     * `https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.2/serving.yaml`

Reviewer 3: 0.2.2 now

    **Example install commands:**

     * To install the default package that includes both Knative Serving and Build:

       ```bash
       kubectl apply -f https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.2/release.yaml
       ```

    * To install all three Knative components without an observibility plugin:

      ```bash
      kubectl apply -f https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.2/serving.yaml \
        -f https://github.com/knative/build/releases/download/v0.2.0/release.yaml \
        -f https://github.com/knative/eventing/releases/download/v0.2.0/eventing.yaml
      ```

1. Depending on what you choose to install, you view the status of your
   installation by running one or more of the following commands. It
   might take a few seconds so rerun the commands until all of the components
   show a `STATUS` of `Running`:

    ```bash
    kubectl get pods --namespace knative-build
    kubectl get pods --namespace knative-eventing

>     kubectl get pods --namespace knative-serving

Reviewer 2: How about add 

```bash
kubectl get pods --namespace knative-monitoring
```

    * `https://github.com/knative/eventing-sources/releases/download/v0.2.0/release.yaml`
    * `https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.2/serving.yaml`

    **Example install commands:**

     * To install the default package that includes both Knative Serving and Build:

       ```bash
       kubectl apply -f https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.2/release.yaml
       ```

    * To install all three Knative components without an observibility plugin:

      ```bash
      kubectl apply -f https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.2/serving.yaml \
        -f https://github.com/knative/build/releases/download/v0.2.0/release.yaml \
        -f https://github.com/knative/eventing/releases/download/v0.2.0/eventing.yaml
      ```

1. Depending on what you choose to install, you view the status of your
   installation by running one or more of the following commands. It
   might take a few seconds so rerun the commands until all of the components
   show a `STATUS` of `Running`:

    ```bash
    kubectl get pods --namespace knative-build
    kubectl get pods --namespace knative-eventing

>     kubectl get pods --namespace knative-eventing-sources

Author: ```suggestion
```

Kubernetes clusters. Knative's pluggable components allow you to
install only what you want in each of your clusters.

The steps covered in the guide are for advanced operators who want to
customize each Knative installation. Installing individual Knative components
requires that you to run multiple and separate installation commands.

## Before you begin

* If you are new to Knative, you should instead [install one of the default
  installation packages](./README.md). Follow the host specific Knative installation
  instructions for the default package to help you get up and running with the
  least effort. Installing a default package also ensures that you can run all the
  [Knative Serving Samples](https://github.com/knative/docs/blob/master/serving/samples/README.md).

* The following steps use `bash` for a MacOS or Linux environment; for Windows,
  some commands might need adjustment.

* This guide assumes that you have an existing Kubernetes cluster,
  on which you're comfortable installing and running _alpha_ level software.

* Kubernetes requirements:

  * Your Kubernetes cluster version must be v1.10 or newer.

  * The

>     [MutatingAdmissionWebhook admission controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#how-do-i-turn-on-an-admission-controller)

Reviewer 2: MutatingAdmissionWebhook admission controller can be disabled if end user do not want to use Automatic Sidecar Injection, so here I'd like we update the sentence a bit:

 The
    [MutatingAdmissionWebhook admission controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#how-do-i-turn-on-an-admission-controller) should be enabled on your Kubernetes cluster if you want to use `Automatic Sidecar Injection`.

Author: Thanks, after digging into the steps in that k8s link, ive edited these steps further

[Custom Resource Definitions (CRD)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/) are created before installing the Istio packages.

You can install the Istio service mesh with
[automatic sidecar injection](https://istio.io/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection).
If you are just getting started with Knative, install this package. Alternatively, you
can choose to install Istio with manual sidecar injection.

### Choosing an Istio installation package

You can choose from the following installation packages to install the Istio
service mesh on you cluster:

| Istio Package Filename | Description       |
| ---------------------- | ----------------- |
| [`istio-crds.yaml`][a] | Initially create CRDs before installing Istio.  |
| [`istio.yaml`][b]      | Install Istio with Automatic Sidecar Injection. |
| [`istio-lean.yaml`][c] | Install Istio with Manual Sidecar Injection.    |

[a]: https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.2/istio-crds.yaml
[b]: https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.2/istio.yaml
[c]: https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.2.2/istio-lean.yaml

> 

Reviewer 2: Kill two lines here

The steps covered in the guide are for advanced operators who want to
customize each Knative installation. Installing individual Knative components
requires that you to run multiple and separate installation commands.

## Before you begin

* If you are new to Knative, you should instead [install one of the default
  installation packages](./README.md). Follow the host specific Knative installation
  instructions to help you get up and running with the least effort. Installing
  a default package also ensures that you can run all the
  [Knative Serving Samples](https://github.com/knative/docs/blob/master/serving/samples/README.md).

* The steps in this guide use `bash` for the MacOS or Linux environment; for Windows,
  some commands might need adjustment.

* This guide assumes that you have an existing Kubernetes cluster,
  on which you're comfortable installing and running _alpha_ level software.

* Kubernetes requirements:

  * Your Kubernetes cluster version must be v1.10 or newer.

  * Your version of the
    [`kubectl` CLI tool](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
    must be v1.10 or newer.

## Installing Istio

> Knative depends on [Istio](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/what-is-istio/) for

Reviewer 5: Knative Build & Serving doesn't require a Service mesh.  Serving uses Istio mainly for traffic routing & Ingress.  Users don't have to use Istio sidecar injection, but we have tested with both configurations to make sure that Knative Serving work with and without sidecar injection.

I believe currently Knative Eventing and Knative Monitoring require a service mesh.

Author: done

the service mesh.

You should first install the `istio-crds.yaml` package to ensure that the Istio
[Custom Resource Definitions (CRD)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/)
are created before installing one of the Istio install packages.

### Choosing an Istio installation package

> There are two options for installing the Istio service mesh:

Reviewer 5: I would call these two options: "Istio with a service mesh"  and "Istio without a service mesh".  The second installations will enable Knative Build/Serving but not Eventing.

Author: done

* *automatic sidecar injection*:
  [Automatically injects the Istio sidecars](https://istio.io/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection/#automatic-sidecar-injection)
  into the pods of your cluster as each of those pods are created.

* *manual sidecar injection*: You must
  [manually inject the Istio sidecars](https://istio.io/docs/setup/kubernetes/sidecar-injection/#manual-sidecar-injection)
  into the pods of your cluster with the `istioctl kubeinject` command.

Tip: If you are just getting started with Knative, you should choose automatic
sidecar injection.

#### Istio installation packages

| Istio Package Filename | Description       |
| ---------------------- | ----------------- |
| [`istio-crds.yaml`][a] | Initially create CRDs before installing Istio.  |
| [`istio.yaml`][b]      | Install Istio with Automatic Sidecar Injection. |

> | [`istio-lean.yaml`][c] | Install Istio with Manual Sidecar Injection.    |

Reviewer 5: I'd phase this as without automatic sidecar injection.  Manual sidecar injection can be done, but it is not required to use Knative.

Author: done
